IQFeed-MySQL-Importer
=====================

__Purpose:__ To build a database of ticker prices for backtesting trading algorithms. 

__Description:__ A very quickly developed MySQL importer for "DTN IQFeed". This script takes the txt files generated by "QCollector Expert " and imports the values into MySQL database. The stored data is intra-day minute bars. "DTN IQFeed" is the data provider and "QCollector Expert" is a software layer to export historical daya from DTN IQFeed

##Requirements


##### DTN IQFeed
* DTN is a leading provider of real-time financial data. DTN is well-known for their fast, reliable and accurate data feeds, offering streaming, real-time stock, futures and options data AND historical end-of-day and intraday stock and futures data from the major North American and Canadian exchanges. 
* This script downloads historical intra-day minute bars using "QCollector Expert" (see requirement below)
* If you do not have this requirement, The cost at the time of writing is $65/month and there is no symbol limit when using QCollector Expert to download historical data. $50 sign-up fee WAIVED if you sign up through a link from the Tradeworks Software web site. (see requirement below)

##### QCollector Expert
* QCollector is used to download and save historical price data for any ticker symbol on the IQFeed servers. All record formats are supported by the software but this script only accepts intra-day minute bars.
* If you do not have this requirement, you can obtain the software with a one-time license fee $129 US at http://www.mechtrading.com/qcollector/dtn/order.htm

##### PHP
* Wrote this in PHP so it can be deployed quickly. May port to other languages
* Currently tested on 5.3.27

##### MySQL database
* Currently tested on 4.1.7
* MySQL structure included


##Usage
1. Create MySQL server and import the suggested structure from "TickerData.sql".
2. Open "lib/class.mysql.php" and change the MySQL login information that applies to your environment
2. Use QCollector to export historical intra-day minute bars to ascii text files. These should be tab delimited .txt files. Depending on the size of the files, you may have to change in the memory allowance in PHP and MySQL
3. Ensure that the text file names have a "_#" after the ticker symbol. Example: "TICKER_1.txt"
4. Add the text files to the "import" folder of the script
5. Run "import.php" 

##License
* See LICENSE.md for details
